In this video, we're going to
look at a range of features for
working with power BI reports.
We're going to start by
coming to our map visual and
at the top right hand corner, if you hover
of the little icon called focus mode.
When we click on it, it actually
brings that visual into focus so
we can concentrate on the detail.
To come out of focus mode, you can either
click the back to report button or
press the escape button on your keyboard.
Similar to focus mode,
if you click the little ellipses,
the three dots top right hand corner,
you have the option to show as table.
And this looks very similar to focus mode,
but it also gives you a table with the
actual values represented in the graphic.
So great way of drilling down and
seeing the detail.
And again we could just
press escape to come out.
If you want to actually stay on the report
page but focus on an individual visual,
another option we have is to come
to ellipsis and clicked spotlight,
and that will white out everything
other than that visual and
then again just escape to come back.
Now, we're going to come
back to focus mode again.
And some of you may have already noticed
that a piece of France has ended up in
Africa and a piece of Canada seems
to have wandered off as well.
Now that's because we are working with
state and while it has recognized as
being geographical data, there's some
ambiguity about where that state is.
So we're going to look at options for
fixing this.
The first option, which is worth trying,
is categorizing the data.
Let's see how that works.
So we got to come to our customer
table on the right hand side.
And we're going to select the state field.
When you do,
it opens up your column tools panel, and
you'll see the state of
the moment is uncategorized.
I'm going to click the drop down, and
I'm going to categorize it as county.
And when I selected, you'll see it
has fixed the problem with France but
we seem to have created more of
a problem in the Americas, so
without data, it hasn't worked perfectly.
Another option is to remove the ambiguity
by creating a calculated column
that has country and stayed in it, and
that's what we're going to do next.
Now we've actually seen two ways
of creating a calculated column.
We can do it in our data
model using decks, or
we can do it in the query
editor using our M language.
And at this point you're
probably wondering which is best.
Well, the answer is, it depends, but let
me try and explain as simply as possible.
Dax is a data analysis language.
So if you're creating a calculated column
to work out your sales to date, for
example, you're probably
better off doing it in Dax.
M, which is our power query language,
is a transformational language.
It's ideal for making data
transformations like concatenation,
which is what we're trying to do here.
So for this scenario, we're better
off doing an in power query, and
it gives us an opportunity to see how we
can get into our query editor in power BI.
So we're going to come to our home
ribbon and you're going to look for
the transformed data button, and
I'm going to click the top half,
and that is going to bring me
back to my power query editor.
Now making sure you've got
the customer table selected,
we're going to add a column.
So select add column in your ribbon and
we're going to add a custom column.
We're going to call our
new column region and
then clicking in the box
where our formula goes.
We're going to start by grabbing country.
So if you could just double select
country from the available columns and
then we get a concussion-ate.
So for this,
we're going to need our M percent and
we're going to want to put a comma.
But this is text so
openly double quotes, type of comma and
a space just to make it more readable.
And then on the other side
of your double quotes,
we're going to need another M present and
then we're going to double click on state.
We're now going to click okay and
are calculated column with country and
state has been added.
We're down in the query editor, so
coming back to our home ribbon,
we're going to click close and apply.
We'll give it a moment
to apply the changes and
now we're going to replace
state with region.
So in your visualizations panel,
we're going to remove state and
instead we're going to select region.
Problem is fixed.
We can now go back to our report.
So clicking back to report,
let's not heckle a different problem.
Our area chart is showing
us our revenue by year, but
we'd like a slightly more fine
breakdown by month within year.
And the best way to do this in
power BI is to use a hierarchy.
We did see how to create hierarchies
in power pivot last week.
What we going to see now is it's
even easier in power BI, so
coming to our calendar table now,
we're going to just expand that.
What we would like is a hierarchy with
fiscal year, fiscal month and day.
I'm going to find fiscal month and
if needs be, make this a little wider.
So you can check it's month and
not month number, and
I'm going to grab fiscal month click drag
and just drop it onto fiscal here on.
Whenever you drop one field onto another,
it creates hierarchy for you.
So really easy.
Let's do the same with day, so I'm just
going to find a click drag on drop that
onto my hierarchy this time and
there's my hierarchy, really easy.
If you want to rename it,
just click the ellipsis or
right click and you can rename and
I'm going to call my new hierarchy
at fiscal date and present.
Now clicking on the area chart, what we're
going to do is remove fiscal year and
replace it with our fiscal date hierarchy
to begin with, the chart looks identical,
but you'll notice some new icons have
appeared at the top of the chart.
And the one we're looking for is expand
all down one level in the hierarchy,
and when we click on that, we can actually
now see revenue by month and year.
If we expand again, we're going to get by
day as well, which is maybe too detailed.
So to drill up,
just click on your drill up error.
And, of course, you're not limited
to date with your hierarchies.
You could have country data,
whatever it is you need.
Within the chart,
it should have sorted by month and year.
But if you find your sort,
order is not correct.
If you come to ellipsis, you'll see
you have the option to sort, and
I could sort by revenue or
fiscal year in fiscal month.
So just make sure that sort order is
set correctly for your visualization.
Within a matrix on the table,
you have another option.
You can sort by column heading at the
moment, the status sorted by fiscal month.
But if I come to total and click on
the heading, it will sort descending.
If I click again,
it will switch it to ascending.
And if I click back on fiscal month,
it was solved by month.
So very easy to sort in our visualizations
and, of course, also very easy to filter.
We've already seen one option.
So, for example, if I click on
a category or a series say, bikes,
it will filter that entire page
to show me the data for bikes.
To clear that filter, I can click
anywhere in that visual all back on my
original selection, and
that will remove it.
What about if I wanted to filter my
donut chart to show all categories other
than bikes?
For that, what I'm going to need to do is
go to my filter's panel, so we're going to
expand our filters pain, and I'm going to
tuck visualizations away for a moment and
all the fields that have been added to
that visual we can use to filter by.
But we can also add any other
fields from our field list.
Coming to my category,
I'm going to click the drop down and
I'm going to choose select all and
then I'm going to unselect bikes.
And that is now shown me all
the categories other than bikes.
To clear that filter,
I can either click select all again or
I can click on the small eraser,
and that will clear the filter.
So very much like a pivot table.
But what makes the filters in power
bi I very interesting is we also have
the option to add filters for the entire
page, or even for the entire report.
So that's all pages in the report, so
a huge amount weaken do with filters.
And if you're wondering,
we can also add slices.
Let's go and do that now.
So I'm going to close up the filters
pain and expand the visualizations pane.
And we're going to need to make
a bit of space for our slicer, so
I'm going to select my area chart and then
I'm just going to bring in a little bit.
So I've got some space to put my slicer.
Then just click onto the canvas,
come to a visualization section and
we're looking for the slicer visual and
we would like to filter by fiscal year.
So in your fields panel, can you please
find fiscal year and just tick to select.
I'm now going to resize that.
So I'm going to move that into place and
because it is numeric data we're filtering
by, it has given us the slider, but
you're not limited to the slider.
If you come to the top right hand
corner and click the drop down,
they're actually five options you can
choose from and the one we want is a list.
So I'm going to select list and
there's my slicer.
If I now select 2018,
it is filtered my entire
page to show data for 2018.
And the slices worked quite
happily alongside other filters.
So if I come down to my donut chart and
select bikes,
both filters have now been applied.
Now it could become a little confusing
trying to work out which filters haven't
hadn't been added.
If you come to any of your visuals,
you'll see their little filter icon and
when I hover over it,
it's telling me all the filters that
have been applied to this visual.
I'm going to turn
the bikes filter off again.
Okay, now it's also quite possible
that you'll want your slicer
to not be connected to certain visuals.
So, for example, when I filter by year,
I don't actually want to change
my violin plot or my matrix.
We can actually choose which
visuals filter other visuals, and
I'm going to show you how to do that now.
So let's clear the slicer
from fiscal year.
They were going to come
to our format ribbon.
We're going to edit interactions, so
I'm going to click Edit interactions.
And two icons have appeared at
the top of all my other visuals,
giving me the option to either filter or
not filter.
I'm going to come to my violin plot and
select no filter and
the same with my matrix, and then I'm
going to turn off headed interactions.
And now, if I come down and select 2018,
everything's filtered except for
my violent plot and my matrix.
By default, slices only work on the
current page, but we do have the option
to create synchronized slices across
different pages in the report.
To do this, we're going to come
to our view tab on our ribbon and
on the far right we're going to
turn on our sink slices paint, so
just click on that button and
a new panels being opened up.
This will show all the pages in the
report, and if we choose to synchronize
the slicer, it will actually
synchronize the slices across the two.
Now it does actually add the slicer, but
you can choose whether you
want it to be visible or not.
I do want to be visible, so
I'm going to take that, and
I'm going to take sales report as well.
So it synchronizes both ways.
I'm going to close my sink slices panel
now, and if you come to sales trends,
you'll see a slice has been added and
it has filtered the report.
If I flipped the server to 2019,
that changes it on sales trends and
it changes it on the sales report.
So that's how we can create
synchronized slices.
One last little thing we're going to
look at, can I ask you to click on
your area chart again and
coming to your visualizations panel,
we've looked at the first button,
which is Fields.
We've looked at the formatting tools, but
there's one more button called analytics,
which we haven't had a look at.
So we're going to take
a quick peek of that.
So clicking on analytics,
there are few options we can adhere on.
What we'd like is an average lines.
I'm going to click the drop down and
I'm going to click add.
And it is now added an average
line to our area chart so
we can see where our revenue was above or
below average.
We have seen quite a range of tools now,
including slices, filters, hierarchies and
analytics that will help us work more
effectively without power Bi I reports.
It has been quite a quick overview, but
now that you know where all these tools
are, you can take some time
to investigate them further.